SDC Tools Sprint 1 (#1215)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: common-content/en/module/tools/sed/index.md

+++
title = "sed"
headless = true
time = 30
facilitation = false
emoji= "💻"
[objectives]
    1="Remove numbers from the start of lines in a file using sed"
    2="Replace occurences of one string in a file with another using sed"
    3="Print the lines of a file which don't contain some string using sed"
+++

`sed` is a tool for replacing text in files with other text.

![Julia Evans' comic about sed](https://wizardzines.com/images/uploads/sed.png)

(Source, including text-only transcript: https://wizardzines.com/comics/sed/)

`sed` executes a list of commands on a file. The most common commands are to replace some text with some other text, or to show or hide or delete lines that meet some criteria.

> Sed commands feature both a matcher (called an "address") specifying which lines to operate on, and an opeation (called a command) to perform on those lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sed commands feature both a matcher (called an "address") specifying which lines to operate on, and an operation (called a command) to perform on those lines.

> `s/cat/dog/`

Operation: `s`
Matcher: `cat`
Replacement: `dog`

substitute cat with dog
```

Add a worked example to show them how you want them to understand and break down sed. (And fix my example if it's wrong!)

Author: Nice! Updated! (And indeed fixed :))
